A reverse idler gear changes the direction of torque flow to the opposite direction of engine rotation
a. True
b. False

How is a torque increase achieved in a standard transmission?
a. The input must turn slower than the output
b. Both shafts must tun in the same direction
c. The output must turn slower than the input
d. Both the input and output must turn at the same speed

What is the term for the calculation of the number of gear teeth per unit of measure?
a. ratio
b. pitch
c. size
d. load

Which of the following gear ratios shows an overdrive condition?
a. 2.15:1
b. 1:1
c. 0.85:1
d. none of the above

Which type of gear develops the mobility of gear whine at higher speeds?
a. spur gear
b. helied gear
c. spiral bevel
d. heringbene

What occurs when a small drive a larger gear?
a. Torque output will be increased
b. Torque output will be decreased
c. Output speed will be increased
d. Input speed will be decreased

What will a driven gear do when an idler gear is placed between it and a driving gear?
a. rotate in the same direction as the driving gear
b. rotate in the opposite direction of the driving gear
c. remain stationary
d. cause the driven gear to rotate faster

What component is used to ensure that the mainshaft (output shaft) and main (speed) gear to be locked to it are rotating at the same speed?
a. synchronizer
b. shift linkage
c. shift fork
d. transfer case

What do the shift forks in a Synchronized transmission control or move?
a. the synchronizer hub
b. the synchronizer splines
c. the synchronizer keys
d. the synchronizer sleeve

In a transaxle, what does the pinion gear on the pinion shaft mesh with?
a. the reverse idler gear
b. the ring gear
c. the countershaft drive gear
d. the input gear

What mechanism prevents two gears from engaging at the same time?
a. shift detent mechanism
b. shift interlock mechanism
c. shift synchronizer mechanism
d. reverse idler gear shift lever

Where are the constant mesh speed gears located?
a. press fit on the mainshaft
b. interference fit on the countershaft
c. mounted on bearings on the mainshaft
d. mounted on bearings on the input shaft

Which of the following gear ratios generates the highest torque or power output?
a. 0.85:1
b. 2.67:1
c. 5.23:1
d. 11.12:1

What occurs in a transmission (with constant mesh gearing) in neutral with the engine running and the clutch engaged?
a. All forward gears in the transmission revolve.
b. Only the mainshaft gears revolve.
c. The main drive gear and the countershaft gears revolve.
d. No gears revolve.

How is the ratio calculated for the reverse gearset?
a. drive gear divided by idler, times idler divided by driven gear
b. idler divided by drive gear, times driven gear divided by idler
c. drive gear divided by driven gear
d. driven gear divided by drive gear

In a transmission, what drives the countergear?
a. the mainshaft
b. the pinion shaft
c. the clutch gear
d. the idler gear
